---
author: degeri
published_utc: 2021-06-06
updated_utc: 2021-06-07
published_url: https://proposals.decred.org/record/e1f104b
---

_Editor note: I slightly reformatted it for clarity (@bee)_

# Decred Bug Bounty Program: Phase 3 Report

Breakdown of spending for the past 11 months (July 2020 - May 2021):

- Website maintenance: $310
- Bookkeeping, triage, and mail correspondence: $1,512
- Total: **$1,822**

Breakdown of payouts:

- [dcrd invdos](https://invdos.net): $2,500
- dcrdata subdomain takeover: $90
- unreleased "Low" level vulnerability: $270
- Total payouts: **$2,860**

Breakdown of submissions (since July 1, 2020 till June 1, 2021):

- Total submissions: **51**
- Valid Reports: **4**
- Invalid Reports: **47**
- Percentage of invalid reports: ~92%
- Total Unique email IDs: **37**

All these emails require 1-2 individual replies even if they are invalid. Sometimes we might even have a 6+ reply thread with a submitter who disagrees with us vehemently. On rare occasions, it has even gotten to a point that we asked certain people to not submit reports anymore because they essentially spammed us with invalid reports and don't stop even after we reject them. This is where a majority of person-hours is spent.

## Critical analysis

We had a submitter who upon payment decided to release the details of the vulnerability (that affected multiple blockchains) in a shorter time frame than expected. Although it was fixed in the code, we had to cut an emergency release to patch against the vulnerability. We then decided that for vulnerabilities that are Medium, High, or Critical, only 60% of the payout will be released on commit of the fix and the other 40% will be held until the fixed version is sufficiently distributed to our users.

We had a report of a vulnerability on dcrdata, when we challenged some points of the submitter they proceeded to test against the mainnet dcrdata which resulted in the crash of a dcrdata server. Per our rules, we did not reward the submitter since they caused damage to the systems and tested against a mainnet service. In the future, greater care should be taken such that both sides (Submitter/Analyzer) have a smoother dialogue and such incidents don't happen.

Getting quality submissions, especially for node/wallet level vulnerabilities remains an issue. Any sort of "promotion" of the bounty programs only seems to increase the number of invalid/bad submissions. This is something we can do very little about since the number of people who are specialized in both blockchain software and security intricacies are very limited.
